This is Obsidian. And Obsidian is this
little tool that people are using as
their second brain. But what's really
cool about it is they're pairing it with
Claw Code and they're getting crazy
results out of it. It's literally a
gamecher. Now, I've been slow to adopt
Obsidian cuz to me, it's been a little
daunting to look at. So, I had my friend
Vin and he clearly explains what
Obsidian is, how to use it with Claude
Code, how to set up these commands
[music] that really drive the most out
of Claude and all the LLMs. And it's an
incredible episode, like a really
gamechanging episode because I think
that people who understand how to use
Obsidian and how to use Claude Code
together, they're going to be able to
live happier, healthier, and wealthier
lives. Why? because it gives incredible
ideas to you on tap. So, I know that the
people that stick around to the end of
this episode, I think that for a lot of
them, it's going to [music] absolutely
change how they use AI and it's going to
be a super impactful way because you're
going to get better ideas at the right
time, the right moment, and it's going
to make you happier, healthier, and
wealthier. Enjoy the episode. [music]
>> [music]
>> I've got my dear friend Vin, also known
as Internet Vin, on the podcast. I
literally begged him to come on. I
[laughter]
I begged him. I begged this man to come
on and to teach us a very specific
thing. Vin, by the end of this podcast
episode, what are people going to learn?
I want you to have an understanding of
how you can use claude code and obsidian
as a thinking partner. I want you to
have an understanding of how you can
stop uh having to explain things to
agents over and over again and just pass
specific files in. And I want you to
understand how you can use Obsidian and
Cloud Code to notice things about the
way you think that you would not have
noticed on your own without these tools.
>> All right, from your lips to God's ears,
[laughter] let's get into it.
Okay. So, first is like what is cloud
code? So, claude code is this like agent
that you can use um in a command line
interface. So, it's just basically this
tool you can use that can control your
computer and you can use it through
natural language. Right? So, I can say
make a file or make a file on my desktop
that says hello Greg in plain text.
Right. And it's going to go and do this.
That's really cool. That's that's
something that's that's new that wasn't
possible before. Before this, I had to
go to the desktop, open some text
editor, and then like create that file,
right? And now this file is on my
desktop. So, I can say open the file.
There we go. Hello, Greg. That's crazy,
right? Um, now what's interesting about
this is if you have this agent that can
like control and do things on your
computer, that means that whatever you
can describe to it, like it can start to
do. And so when you if you describe a
project to it or you get into these long
conversations uh with an agent,
um, it can do more and more complex
things. The more information it has, the
more complex things it can do. But the
problem is that if you have to let's say
you know like I write some super long
description about a particular project
or I have like an hour conversation with
this agent about a particular project
it's like I don't want to have to create
a new session to explain that all I
don't want to have to explain that over
and over and over again. Um, a lot of
people are using like claude uh or
chatbt on the web and it has things like
memory but you you can't like control
you don't know what's in that memory
right you don't know what it knows and
what it doesn't know and so there needs
to be some way of like you know passing
information into these agents that is
easier and faster and the better
information you can give it and the
faster the information you can give it
the more stuff if it can do for you and
the better the faster you can delegate
to it. Okay. So now even if I let's say
let's say I had like you know let's say
I wrote like a big project description
here, right? create a file that
describes, you know, a project um
about
a to-do list app that um
is very minimally designed
and reads from uh all of my calendar
and my messages and um my Slack and
Slack and interprets it into a task list
that of tasks that it thinks that I
should do. I don't know some some idea,
right? So now this this is a file that
could be on my desktop and what I can do
when I use cloud code is I can reference
that file and pass it in whenever I
want.
>> And why that's important is because
>> it's the context, right?
>> Yes.
>> The whole game is
>> feeding the beast good context. Yes,
exactly. And I don't want to have to do
this over and over again. And and and
when I work on this uh over days, I I'm
not going to remember like what we
talked about, right? So, I want some
kind of file uh that I can like pass in.
Oh, sorry, Greg. One sec.
>> Yeah. And that's that's sort of the
problem that a lot of people are facing
with cloud code is like they're using it
and then they're saying, well, it's it's
okay. It's not like gamechanging. Mhm.
>> And the issue is they don't have they're
not they're not feeding the right
context at the right time.
>> Yes, exactly. And so here's so here's
like a a project description that it
wrote and obviously I can pass this in
and this is like a this is like a
general one that I just created but you
you can make these like very complex you
can build them into like robust files
right over time. So we know that uh
cloud code can create files and it can
repeat and it can um uh read files right
so now I can say let's say I created a
new session so here's a new session and
now I can say like I want to work on
this project and I go here and it's
going to be um to-do app here it is boom
now I didn't need to explain the file
again I need I didn't need to explain
the project again right so it's going to
read this file and it's going to start
like you know That saved me a lot of
time. Great project. Before diving in, a
few questions to scope the first
session. So that'll continue. So now
what is Obsidian? Right. Obsidian is
this tool that it's kind of like an
interface that sits on top of um uh a
collection of markdown files, right? So
here like this is reading a markdown
file. How I use Obsidian story
development, right? Um I have uh daily
notes. This is my daily notes. This is a
This is also um a markdown file. I
should do my own fundamental analysis
into thing into how things stay pure
when they grow and become more
mainstream. Right. This is just a file
that I have. I have um you know like a
file on Greg Eisenberg that I haven't
put in.
>> Oh, that's weird. That's weird.
>> Yeah,
>> that's pretty weird.
>> And so I I make files like notes of
things that I'm learning from people and
stuff like that, too. So I have
different um files for everything,
right? And the interesting thing that
makes a vault, which is Obsidian, what
Obsidian interacts with, this whole
thing is called a vault. What makes it
different than a folder is that Obsidian
is not only interacting with just like a
you know a folder of files. Um but what
it does is it also allows you to make
inter uh to connect relationships
between files. So I can say today I am
on um a podcast with Greg Eisenberg. Now
this file is linked to that Greg
Eisenberg file. Super interesting. Super
interesting. And so when people like
like like people uh there's a lot of
people who really really like using
Obsidian and tools like Obsidian because
of this ability to form inter
relationships. This is unique to just
having a folder. a folder on your
computer cannot show these inter
relationships.
And so it gets really interesting when
you start to um keep making these like
interreationships over time, right? And
so what happens here's a little
visualization. And so in the here, these
are each one of these circles is a file
and and and it's it's showing how it's
like connected to all of these other
files where I've written things about.
So here's like personal agent
infrastructure,
right? And so I could look, you know,
and I guess I should also add just kind
of a comment on this and what was
difficult about doing this demo, there's
like so much personal information in
here because this is like my personal
thing. So I don't even know like what's
going to show up on the screen here,
right? Um, but that's part of doing
demos like this, which is which are kind
of weird and interesting. But you can
see personal agent infrastructure. It
links to like Aentic AI. There's like a
link here to Telegram. There's a link
here to like Toby,
the founder of Shopify. There's a link
to like Presence Log, Claudebot, you
know, and then here's like I I have a
podcast too called the other stuff. And
like you'd see I'm obviously doing a lot
of like thinking about that a lot,
right? And so I can also, let's say if I
go to Greg Eisenberg and I go to local
graph. So, here's like all the times
I've written about Greg Eisenberg,
right? Notes on time constraints, how I
use Obsidian, which is just kind of
interesting. Um, so if I'm listening to
>> I love you, too, Vin. I love you, too.
>> If I'm listening to a show and I'm
picking up different patterns, I can I
can reference that back to to Greg. So,
that's really interesting. But here's
the thing. The reason why people love
Obsidian is because of these
interreationships. the idea that you
could open a file and then you know I
just open this file and then I'm like oh
interesting I mentioned Greg Eisenberg I
can click that and it goes to that file
that's interesting right it shows it
works more to uh it works more like the
way your brain works your brain connects
these patterns all the time
>> here question yeah
>> so I see why it's interesting
>> but how does this get me better output
>> exactly yeah so the next thing is
obsidian in released this new tool
called Obsidian CLI. And what that
allows you to do is it allows you to use
Cloud Code and it can go and it can read
all of the files in your Obsidian Vault,
which is a folder of text files.
But with the Obsidian CLI, it can give
Claude code not only those files that it
can read and access, but it can also
give Claude code information about the
inter relationships of those files. So
you can see so cloud code can see that
oh this file is connected to this file
and this file and this file and that
gets very interesting in terms of what
claude code can understand about you and
what claude code can uh understand about
uh all of the relationships between the
things that you're working on. It can
start to surface patterns about what
you're thinking about that you are not
seeing for yourself. some idea that you
might have been writing about for a year
in this vault. It could be a latent idea
and it can just immediately say like,
hey, did you know that you've been
writing about this same pattern in
startups or in this particular project
you're working on in every single note
you're making across these different
domains and and in seeing that for the
first time can be like a huge light bulb
effect. It can cause like huge
progressions in your learning and your
understanding and your point of view on
the world but also in what you're
working on. Um, so I've written out I
wanted to demonstrate how that actually
works in terms of how I can pass
information into an agent that would be
impossible without Obsidian and Cloud
Code.
So here's some commands that I have that
I use. And I don't want you to be afraid
of like all this stuff. I know this can
look intense, but um here here's what um
here's what I've got some commands. And
this is just terminal that I've created
and I'm running it in Obsidian. You
don't need to use this. You can just
also do this in your own terminal
session on in whatever tool you want.
But I put it in obsidian because I want
to see it all together and I wanted to
show you the ways in which you can like
integrate and customize this
environment.
So here's a cool thing. So
context/context
load full context about my life, work,
and current state. Reads context files,
daily notes, and follows back links to
build a complete picture. So I'll just
show you that right here. So, like let's
say I open a new session in in uh in
Claude just on my desktop. And now it's
like I'm about to work on something, but
before I work on it, I can just type
context demo. Now, it's going to read a
whole bunch of files about where I'm
currently at. Done.
Like, I've already preloaded I've
already preloaded in all this context
now. So, you can see it's going to start
reading all these files. It's reading a
read me. It's reading context about new,
which is a media company that I'm
working on. It's reading about other
stuff. It's reading my personal the
other stuff is my show. It's reading a
personal workflow context. And so I
don't have to worry about it not knowing
the key information that I wanted to
know. I just did that one command and
now it's going to get all that
information done. So I can use slash
today, which is a morning review. It
pulls calendar, tasks, IME messages, and
the past week of daily notes in into a
prioritized plan for the day. Why does
this matter? Well, okay, sure. You can
set up an agent and give it access to
your calendar and your tasks and iMes
and things like that, but it's miss it's
that's that doesn't have all of the
information about what you're thinking
about and why. If I'm writing daily
notes about some particular technology
or project or thing that I'm interested
in, does my calendar reflect actively
like does it match the subjects I'm
actually writing about? If an agent has
that context, you can it can it can uh
more effectively give you um information
about what you should do or not do or
and it can more effectively make
decisions on what should be in your
calendar or not in your calendar. Here's
another one. Slashclose day
[clears throat]
end of day processing extracts action
items, surfaces vault connections,
checks confidence markers, needs to be
updating. So I have a bunch of
hypotheses that I I think about and I
give them a confidence rating. This is
an idea I'm working on. I feel very
solid about it. Here's another idea I'm
working on. I'm not sure about it. So,
these are like um daily operations
things, but [clears throat]
this is what I use Obsidian for the
most, which is thinking tools. I really,
really, really like working with LLMs as
a thinking partner. It's my favorite way
of using LLM. I know people like to use
uh agents and LLMs to build things, but
I really like using them to think
alongside me and build when I feel like,
you know, I really have a novel way of
viewing things. So, let's see here. Um,
so ghost here's here's a command I have.
It answers a question the way I would.
It builds a voice profile from the
vault, writes in that voice, then
evaluates the fidelity. So, I can just
say, "What do I think of AI?" And I'm
going to show you this challenge topic.
It pressure tests current beliefs using
the vault's own history, finds
contradictions, counter evidence, and
shifts in thinking. Why does that
matter? Well, if I want to make sure
that I'm continually developing as a
human being and as a as a as in my
skills, I want to make sure that, you
know, the POV I have isn't overly biased
or limited. So, this can challenge me.
Emerge surface ideas the vault implies
but never states. conclusions from
scattered premises, unnamed patterns,
unarticulated directions. This is super
super useful because a lot of times, you
know, I I can be stuck just surfacing
ideas in a in in um in a lot of
different ways, like for years, and just
having someone say a simple thing to me
that just says, "Hey, this is just
naming the idea. Hey, did you know that
you keep circling around this pattern?"
Huge breakthroughs.
Uh slashdrift. It compares it compares
my stated attention intentions against
actual behavior over 30 to 60 days.
Surfaces what I am avoiding ideas.
People on this podcast, the listeners
will probably like this one. Deep 30-day
vault scan with cross-domain pattern
techni detection and graph analysis to
gen generate ideas across all domains.
This gives me um not just ideas on like
things I should work on. like it gives
me ideas for tools and things like this,
but it also gives me ideas on like films
I should watch, products I should buy.
Again, all influenced by like like
things I'm writing about in my vault.
Um,
trace tracks how an idea has evolved
over time across the vault. So, let's
see some of this stuff. The trace demo.
So, I did this one already. And the way
this would work is I just like create a
tab here and I could just be like claude
trace and I had to create demo versions
of all of these um commands because of
how much personal information is in my
vault. But still I don't even know like
I I I can't even control what is going
to show up on the screen. And I I have
just a dumb question. Like all those
commands that
>> we saw,
>> is that commands that you created or is
that what Obsidian created?
>> That those are commands that I created.
>> Mhm.
>> And um you can create them very easily
by just asking Cloud Code to create a
specific command.
>> Mhm. Um,
>> we can include I'll include in the show
notes and in the description
just like a link where people can click
to get access to some of Vin's
uh skills if that's if that's
>> Yeah, for sure. Totally. Yeah.
>> So, you can see here what I did was I
just typed slashtrace demo. Demo is just
because I'm showing this publicly how I
use Obsidian. And so what this does is
it tracks my I u the way I've developed
and um the way I've navigated this idea
through my vault. So I have an example
here. It's really interesting.
So here I I did it and I and I and I let
it run. And what it's doing is as it
says like I'll trace how your
relationship with obsidian has evolved.
Let me start by building a vocabulary
map and searching across a vault. So it
when you have OB like so now it starts
going through the vault reading all of
these different files and it can see all
of the files that are connected using
the Obsidian CLI. This is a lot man.
This is this is something that I would
never be able to do on my own and to
read all of these files to know what how
they're interconnected with each other.
This is just not possible for me to do
as a human being. And then it spits this
out. I now have everything I need to
construct this trace. Here's the full
evolution trace how I use Obsidian.
First appeared January 11th, 2025. Time
span 13 months. That's in relation to
this vault specifically, meaning all the
files in here.
It says prevaults December 2024. The
essay how I take notes in the west end
of Toronto dated December 1st, 2024
describes a complete system where
Obsidian plays no role at all. The
system is audio dumps via Mac Whisper,
LLM dialogue loops, Canopia for spatial
mapping, physical notebooks for
cognitive friction, Fuseland for
tracking, arena for fragments. The
pipeline is capture process
crystallization. This is the baseline.
Obsidian is not in the picture.
Discovery and skepticism, January to May
2025.
The first daily note in the vault, raw
excitement mixed with uncertainty. I
could probably drop transcriptions in
here, too, as a way of storing them. The
current theory is that in terms of
note-taking birectional linking is not
that useful but I don't know then
it says the chosen tool
um originally I was back link it says um
here how I use obsidian note a pivotal
realization about backlinking originally
I was backlinking to general terms
podcast or physical fitness or film
making I'm realizing it's not the most
useful way to use obsidian the most
important thing to do is to create notes
for each of my patterns theories,
projects or perspectives and get them
documented and out of my head and then
link to those notes. So, it's just it's
just like pulling from things I've
written and it's forming this historical
this history of this concept. And I
could do this with anything. I can do
this with like startups. I can do this
with a particular project, with foods,
my relationships, like a hobby,
anything, right? And then phase four,
January 2026, a month of explosive
building,
everything still require and then like
everything still requires me to actively
prompt and manage each section session.
The next unlocked is figuring out how to
get agents task to run automatically.
The friction is no longer with obsidian
itself, but with the boundary between
the vault and agent execution. So you
can see I'm really pushing myself,
right? And it's cool. This is this is a
very useful thing for me to understand
how my um use of this tool is evolving.
And it's just I think it's just absurd
that I can just be making notes and then
about all of these different things
through my life. Like even as a parent I
I can I can like reflect on the
different things I'm learning. I just
think this is insane that an a computer
can have this much information about me
and surface these patterns. I would not
be able to do this on my own and this
fast. And what a great tool it is for me
like like I can just like now write in
here and I'm you know as I'm thinking
about things and it gives me ideas right
about um my life and the projects that
I'm working on. So I can say you know
it's interesting the way that my
relationship with Obsidian has evolved
over time.
It makes me think a lot about
the way in which my relationship with
computers has evolved over time since I
was a kid to now. It's interesting
how these things just happen and
compound over time and we don't really
realize it. So, it's just like a note,
right? It's an idea. So that's an
example of something.
>> So I think a part of getting good at
Obsidian sounds like refle, you know,
inserting reflection into your everyday
life because a lot of people,
>> you know, we're moving from meeting to
meeting. We're busy. We're parents. Um,
you know, we grow up and we of course
write things down in notebooks and stuff
like that, but I feel like as we get
older, we actually write and reflect
less and less.
>> Yes.
>> Uh, you know, h how do you
how have you been able to insert
reflection into into your life?
>> Yeah. I think um for me it's really
about there's there's two reasons that I
think reflection is interesting and
making notes a lot are is interesting.
One is that it's great to be able to
look back on them. Like for me now,
obviously I can use an agent, but to for
me to go back and see these notes and
realizing that, oh, like I'm a person
that's continually changing. My skill is
continually changing. Projects are
continually evolving, it's it's just
it's an amazing part of life to be able
to reflect on how things are changing
over time and how you are changing over
time and how the world is changing over
time. But the other thing is that
there's like a functional reason too.
The reason I like to make notes a lot is
because that's how I generate ideas.
When I like get when I sit down on my
computer and I write things down, that's
where ideas come. For example, this
thing I just wrote here, it's just a
quick note. I'm just doing it in real
time. I'm just making it up right now.
But um by writing it out, I feel like I
internalize it more. And I like having
good ideas. I like progressing. So
because I like having good ideas and I
like progressing, writing is how I do
that. And so I think um to you know if
you want to cultivate like a writing as
a habit I think first you have to uh
connect it with the idea that this is
how you progress and this is how you
generate ideas and this is how you uh
have form original ways of thinking. Um
the other thing I'll say is that writing
right now is a big way of how you
delegate things to agents. That's like a
whole new that's a whole new aspect of
it. So if you can develop a writing
habit,
you have a lot more context that you can
pass over to an agent which then um
dramatically I think increases the
amount of like things you can delegate
and the amount of things you can build.
I hope that was a good answer.
>> How does how [snorts] does this relate
to open claw? Because if you think of
open claw, it's essentially,
you know, at the best case an extension
of you. Yeah,
>> that could go and do things you know uh
independently
slashbased on your guidance. So how can
you use commands obsidian
[clears throat] and open claw and
reflection harmoniously?
>> Yeah. So I think if you look at like
here's an example of one command that I
do. It's just like a schedule command.
Um, and so what I asked this thing to do
is I said schedule I said can I take a
meeting with Greg Eisenberg today at at
Feb 20 at 2 p.m. Right? And what this
does is of course it can look at my
calendar and stuff like that but it's
also going to look through my daily
notes. It's going to look through what I
care about and then it's going to give
me some perspective. So it says your day
is stacked. You're already recording on
Greg's podcast this morning followed by
a team lunch outing and meeting with
Peter and Vince. Your Feb 17 note show
the Greg episode has been top of mind.
The vault has a dedicated Greg Eisenberg
note. No, not a two. So the
recommendation is no, not a 2pm, but you
might not need a separate meeting at
all. Yeah, that's val that's actually
the correct answer. How does that relate
to OpenClaw? Well, OpenClaw is this like
autonomous agent that can go and do
things if you uh set it up to do that.
Like it can do things without you having
to prompt it all the time. it can just
go and make decisions and build things
for you um on your own. So now what
OpenClaw can do is in the same way I
just did this command, OpenClaw can do
this on its own as well. And it can go
and read my vault, find connections and
then make decisions uh on behalf of me
with like a deeper understanding of me.
And now instead of like managing an
agent or talking to another human about
working on something, I just focus on
managing this vault. This is like the
new source. I just continually try and
make it so that this vault has all of
the information needed so that I can
delegate to an agent and um the agent
can just pull from this vault source and
make decisions. And if it's not making
the right decisions, I'm changing
something on the vault, I'm not
necessarily working with the agent
specifically.
>> Um
kind of kind of um that's my speculation
on that subject. I think it's very
interesting. Yeah, I think uh one thing
that worries me a little bit about it is
if Obsidian [clears throat]
is really your second brain,
>> giving openclaw access to your second
brain
>> is
scary.
>> Yeah, scary. And I would say that is the
um
fundamental um
the the weird element of this technology
I would say and I have purposely given
um Obsidian I mean sorry a claude code
or any agent access to a lot of
information. I've purposely done that
because my um relationship with this is
I want to understand what these things
are and I want to understand what
they're revealing about, you know, how
our relationship with computers is
changing. But um it's weird. It's like
you have to really think about how much
information you're sharing with these
agents and whether that's the right
decision or not the right decision. And
I think um it's going to be very
interesting to see how privacy as a
concept evolves and changes and what we
fight for or don't fight for in like the
in the future of our society and our
world. Even with every one of these
commands, I had to create a new version
of them, a demo version, so that I
wouldn't reveal too much personal
information while I'm on screen on this
podcast. And even then, it's like a it's
a tossup. You know, I could type the
demo version, but who knows what's going
to be shown on screen, you know?
What other commands do you want to show?
>> Um, so
there's connect which is allow it allows
me to take two domains and connect um
them using the vaults link graph. So I
can just say I did one here
and I just asked it to uh connect
film making and world building. And so
it goes through and it reads all of
these different files and then it can
start to say okay let's let's connect
these two concepts. So notes in film
making uh notes in filmmak's
neighborhood. So I was like 35 film
watch list my first meeting with Toby
notes in the world building neighborhood
um the worldbuing essay um new as a
media company. So these are different
things I'm thinking about. So bridge one
the interview portal and the constructed
world in film making if I notice
something specific and asked a question
about it it would open a portal into a
person's internal world which is often a
vast universe of concepts and beliefs
and visions. So worldbuilding essay I
want my blog to show you what I value
what I believe what I worry about like a
tomb from ancient Egypt. I want my blog
to be a place that you dig up and
examine long after I'm gone. These are
things that I've written and I can start
to see how these ideas connect together.
Bridge to always on documentary equals
continuous world building.
Always on documentary is a creative
strategy where companies continuously
narrativize their characters, pursuits,
conflicts, and visions through
documentary. So these are like things
that I'm writing about and it's showing
me the ways in which these are
connected. Um, I think this can get very
interesting depending on the kinds of
things that you're willing to connect
together. You could get probably pretty
crazy with it as well, depending on what
you're writing about in your vault. I
could connect like shawarma and startups
if I wanted to, for example, and see the
kind of connections that are coming
between these things. Um, again, really
interesting because all of this is
happening super quickly and I don't need
to explain any of this to an LLM. I can
just type something like slashconnect
filmm worldbuilding.
>> The the a lot of the examples you're
using is personal reflection. Yes. Yes.
>> How do you think about
uh you know for example note-taking in
meetings like maybe you have like a
granola or Gemini notes taking you know
uh taking notes or and and and sort of
putting it into Obsidian or um and by
the way when I say notes those could be
meetings that you're not even in. They
could just be like,
>> you know, Tommy met with Vince and they
had this meeting and I want to put it in
here.
>> Yes.
>> Um, how do you think about that?
>> So, it's a really good question. So, I
think you can use these vaults however
you want to use them in terms of like um
you could put any text you want in here.
If you want to put your granola meeting
transcripts in here, you can put them in
here. And you have to just make sure you
know maybe you're doing something like
this, right? So, you're just like
meetings and then you're like, "Okay,
these are this is, you know, project
one." And then every time you do a
meeting, um, you take your granola notes
and you just put them in here, right? So
you're like meeting Greg Eisenberg Vin
plus VIN and then you know that file is
created now and you can just drop your
trans you can just drop your meeting
notes in here and now that's in the
vault and then you can pass that into
the agent or the agent will discover it,
right? Especially if you start tagging
like oh I'm going to tag this back to
you know like my podcast or something
there. Now it's connected. So now the
the the agent it has like more context
and now it knows that trans this
transcript is related to this other
file. Great. Um I think that's up to
you. I think the way that you the the
amount of information that you put in
here is up to how you want to use the
vault and how you want to delegate to
things to agents and maybe you even want
to create different vaults for different
purposes. For me per for me I use LLM
and agents as a way to increase my own
level of understanding of subjects. So I
use it for a lot of reflection and
things like that. So I don't want an
agent to write into the files. Like I
could easily get it to do that. Like I
could just say like even here I' I've
asked it to write a description of some
commands that I can talk about today.
But I don't I don't I don't want it to
make a file to do this because I want to
control all the files in my Obsidian
vault because I I always want it to pull
from what I think about things, right?
Not what it thinks about things. And if
it starts making its own files in this
vault, then I don't know like is like
when it's finding these patterns, is it
finding patterns about things it's
written or is it finding patterns about
things I've written? So I create a rule
for myself which is like a strict
separation between these things. I only
want it to write things on the side here
and then I will take that and and and
and write what I think um should be
included.
>> Right. Some
>> Yeah. Go ahead. No, I was just going to
say like,
you know, I could see the power of just
using it for your own reflections.
>> I can also see the power of,
you know, AI is really good at, you
know, going out on the internet, finding
information based on trends and stuff
like that. Distilling it in a way that
you want and having that being put into
your world is also interesting. Yes,
totally. I think that and also like
let's say if you asked um the Obsidian
if you asked the um cloud code to go
through your Obsidian file and generate
ideas
which um you know ideas for tools that
you should build well then you can just
like say okay cool if that's if I have
an idea for a tool that I should build
just generate a description of that and
then just build the tool. So
>> exactly.
>> Yeah. I want to show this one so that
it's like less on reflection.
Like for example like you know I'm a I
built this thing called ideab
browser.com and every single day we give
this validated startup idea like someone
theoretically can go and
>> you know grab that information put it in
an obsidian vault and then based on that
basic you know help them build the
actual thing right
>> totally yes so I want to show you this
because I think it'll it'll really make
it it'll take it out of the realm of
reflection ction and into the realm of
building. But the only issue is this
takes a bit. So
>> yeah, so the other thing is that with
all of these like with these commands,
another pattern that I'm noticing is
that they take a bit because it's
reading so many files. And I would say
that's a big difference between using
Obsidian and like or using cloud code
with access to this Obsidian vault that
I'm noticing is all of my requests are
taking way longer and it's just because
it's reading so much more. So like look
at this one. So this is ideas demo. So
I'll run a comprehensive ideas
generation. Let me start by gathering
vault structure and context in parallel.
And then if you look it's really
interesting to see what it's doing,
right? So it's like Obsidian orphans,
right? So it's it's it's it's like I
guess orphans are like files that are on
their own, not connected to things,
right? So that's interesting that it
knows that. Obsidian dead ends, Obsidian
Resolved, Obsidian tag counts. So it's
just trying to it's trying to figure out
like some connection between all these
things. Um and then it says, okay, daily
read. So it's reading my daily notes.
Then it found this file called new
context, which is new is this media
company I'm working on. Then it's like
read file the other stuff context that
that's podcast. The other thing I would
say to you guys is I do manage
um I write uh I create context files for
projects that are pretty extensive. I'll
show you I I was I didn't know if I was
going to show this because it's very
personal but like for the other stuff.
Look at this. So other stuff working
context. What shifted recently
frontloading profile by traveling to San
Francisco, New York City to record
guests. This is super personal stuff,
but what is the other stuff? The format,
core beliefs of the show. Research is
the foundation. Solid. The best
conversations feel like discovery solid.
You know, here's the team that's working
on it. And so what happens is this again
very personal, but this is um context
that it just pulled in. So now it knows
who's working on my podcast, what are
the what are the recent hypothesis
hypotheses I'm exploring. Um, and it
just got that information. That's just
like one of the things it did. Personal
workflow context. Super personal file,
but it shows like um, you know, like uh,
what my daily schedules is like, you
know, things that I have to do like in
my personal life. So it's like pulling
that how I like to work, how I don't
like to work. Personal agent
infrastructure is another thing. Let's
see what happens if I pull this up.
This is a project in which I want to
take a step towards increasing my
personal infrastructure workflow,
delegation, however you want to describe
it with agents, understanding what it
means to delegate to agents more and
more implementation approach. So this is
like what I'm writing about the file
about how I'm thinking about using
agents personally. And again, that's an
example of one of the files it's
reading. That's just one of them. So you
saw like the other stuff, the personal
workflow, and it's factoring that all in
to this task I've asked it to do, which
is generate ideas for me. Gathering data
from your daily notes, calendar, and
vault structure. This takes a moment
since it's pulling from multiple
sources. Again, one of the um things
with this is that it's just going
through a lot of information, man. A lot
of information, so it takes longer. You
know, it's already been going for five
minutes, right? And so that's that's
something I'm noticing. But for me,
that's what I want. I want that. I want
I want a response from LLMs that is very
very contextual uh to the things that
I'm writing about. And I think a lot and
I think that's how me and an agent can
work best together where I just focus on
continually um noting that my the the
where I'm currently at in terms of the
projects I'm working on and what my
understanding is and what I find
interesting. I want to maintain that and
make it as current and as deep as
possible. So whenever I'm talking to an
agent, it has the best representation at
all times of who I am in that moment
when I ask the agent for something.
>> Yeah, I mean that's the goal, right? You
that's the question that we all should
be asking of ourselves, which is
>> does the agent have the most upto-date
information on the projects, on my
preferences and my dreams and my hopes
and my goals? Um because you're it's
only as good as the up-to-date version
of that. Correct.
>> Yes, 100%. The quality the the quality
of information that the agent has
entirely determines what it can do for
you. Right. If it doesn't know a lot
about you, it's not going to be able to
do a lot for you. But if it knows a lot,
then it can it can it can do things for
you that I I think like even some of
your in some it's kind of weird to say,
but I mean like that you don't even know
about yourself in ways.
>> I mean it makes sense, right? Cuz
ultimately what this is doing like to
distill it to its core, it's connecting
the dots.
>> Yes.
>> Obsidian and Obsidian and Claude code
here are are connecting the dots. Now,
it's actually quite difficult as a as a
business owner or just as a personal in
our personal lives to connect the dots.
Like why do people in a lot of ways go
to you know coaches, therapists?
>> Yes.
>> Um you know if you go to a therapist and
you know you have someone who is you're
doing most of the talking, right? Think
about it. You're doing a lot of the
reflection and the therapist and coach
is sort of guiding you. That's that's
what this is doing in a lot of ways. And
I'm not saying by the way that don't go
to your therapist, you know, just
>> but I'm but my point is it helps it
helps you helps you uncover what are
their dots and how you can connect them.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And for me, yeah, it's
just it's just really exciting. Um, and
yeah, it's just it's just a crazy time
with computers. So, let's look at this.
This thing finished. So, this is an idea
generation report. vault relationship
exploration. This is this is pretty
extensive, right? Like to get an idea
report
like I I think this is this is really
going to show how we can move you move
from reflection to something actionable.
So
structural highlights. So again, this is
just Obsidian stuff, right? Orphans
worth noting. There's some defense
technology stuff here. just a theme
that's growing in Canada. Massive
intellectual investment sitting in
isolation. Also, orphan agentic
software. So, orphan just means these
are files I haven't really linked.
Random notes I just wrote once or
something. Um, unresolved links that
reveal latent interests.
Uh, hidden relationships. Again, all
reflection stuff. Fine. What's working?
Obsidian cloud code as a combined system
is working for me. This is producing
genuine breakthroughs in thinking and
output day per domain structure. when
enforced. This is basically I started u
splitting my schedule where each day has
a specific focus. This is cool and this
is very true. The Greg Eisenberg episode
as a forcing function. It's compressing
months of thinking about Obsidian and
agents into a clear thesis with demos.
Very true. It, you know, coming on the
show and doing this forced me to um
synthesize everything I knew and present
it.
But here's where we're going to the
actionable stuff. Tools to build
The slashgraduate slash command daily
note idea extractor based on daily notes
are full of idea sorry daily notes are
full of idea tags and interesting
thinking that never gets developed. The
vault has nine idea tags but hundreds of
undiscovered insights. Build a command
that scans recent daily notes,
identifies ideas tagged or not, and
prompts you to decide create a
standalone note, add to an existing
file, or dismiss. This turns a daily
node stream into a structured idea
pipeline. Obsidian vault for new. It
says I just have to manage and set up a
central Obsidian vault for new. What
that means is in the same way that I'm
creating this vault and it has all my
ideas and my patterns and everything
like that. Um why would I not create one
for my team where they like as a team we
can go and ask this vault questions and
we can all uh contribute to it. Here we
go. Tools to start using. What is this?
Typed for all external documents.
Uh, interesting. A time blocking act
that enforces day. A time blocking app
that enforces day per domain. Meaning
since I'm trying to focus on one thing
each day, one aspect of my life, it's
saying why not create a time blocking
app that forces you to do that.
Interesting
systems to implement.
One sentence in Obsidian agent handles
arrests. This is literally the demo 3
version of the Greg Eisener.
Eisenberg prep, you're already imagining
it. The next step is to actually
building it. Start small. Write schedule
a call with person about topic this week
in a daily note and have Otis or
Claudebot or OpenClaw pick it up and
handle it. So, it's saying maybe you can
delegate right from the note itself is
how I'm interpreting that. Super
interesting.
>> Yeah, I just inline inline delegation
like
>> maybe that's even like a new UX pattern.
I don't even know, right? That you could
build into like these different tools.
Um, subjects to investigate. Christopher
Alexander's pattern language applied to
digital spaces. Interesting. Um, Black
Mountain College as a model for the
stadium. Stadium is a physical space we
have in Toronto. Authorless media as a
concept. Uh, how Shenzen's hardware
ecosystem actually works. Things to
write and publish. That'd be useful.
Context architecture essay. The computer
as a place. Software will become
fashion. What Toronto theory actually
is. Editorial thinking zen conversations
to have. This is interesting. These are
real people. Aaron stadium workshop host
about becoming an anchor of technical
programming. This is a space we have in
Toronto. Trun another person program
about making program the flagship
series. Steph ango obsidian CEO about
the vault as a place. Um and so this is
like
yeah this is crazy. It's it's suggesting
people I should meet, right? Top five
high impact do now. Build the graduate
command or do a manual weekly idea
review. Um,
>> this is crazy, dude. This is actually
crazy. Like, and the fact that it's in
plain text and it just not be it's not
there's no images. It It doesn't make it
easy to read, but I kind of like it
because it's it's like dressed down. You
know what I mean?
>> Yeah. I mean, I like that aesthetic cuz
I'm a nerd, but you could just say, you
know, you could you could just say,
obviously, you could just say, can you
turn this into a beautiful readable HTML
file that is on my desktop? This is hard
to read and it's going to do that.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. So, I mean, if you don't that
says if you don't like that, just do it
however you want to do it. You know what
I mean? I I like it like this in this
kind of like this aesthetic. Um, but
yeah, that's how you can move out of
reflection. And of course, you know, of
course, we could also say like here, you
know, if we don't if we don't want to do
this, uh, we could also say like it it
recommended that /graduate command. So I
could just say build the slashgraduate
command.
>> Mhm. [sighs]
>> Right. Which is interesting.
>> And is that how you started building a
lot of your commands? Like it it sort of
it started suggesting it and you're like
just go build it.
>> Well, I started off actually like
building them myself. Like I'm like, oh,
trying to think about commands myself.
But then yeah, I said I started asking
the agent like, well, wait a second.
>> What commands do you think would be
interesting? And I just and this might
be useful. Another thing that I like to
do is I like to move to like higher
levels of abstraction when I'm using an
an LLM. What I mean by that is I could
say like, oh, make a command that um
tells me what I should focus on each
day. And that's that's like um a command
that I thought of. But when I when I
another thing you can do is you can step
back and I can say based on my obsidian
vault and what you know about me form an
understanding of what you think my level
of understand like where you think my
skill level is in terms of of a person
and the projects that I'm working on and
based on that suggest the kinds of
commands I should use that would take me
from the level I'm at to a higher level.
Right? get like, you know, get it to
suggest the commands for me instead of
me suggesting the commands and I could
pick between them. So, look at this.
This is this is it was this was the
agent's idea based on what it read in my
vault based on the notes I'm taking.
Right? So, let's see what this is. Daily
note idea extractor ideas, insights, and
original thinking accumulate in detail
in daily notes, but rarely graduate into
standalone notes where it can where they
can compound through back links. This
command scans recent daily notes,
surfaces the best candidates, and helps
decide what to promote into like an idea
or something, right? Sure. So, this is
how it's going to work. It scans all the
recent daily notes. It cross references
with the existing vault. It presents
candidates. It graduates selected ideas.
If uh if creating a new standalone note,
create the note in the vault route.
Write the note as a mini essay or
working document that captures the core
claim or question context from the daily
note where it originated connections to
other vaults notes as backlinks. Now all
this stuff like it captures the core
claimer question. You might be looking
at this and think like okay this is just
the text that the agent generated and it
is but also it hits differently for me
because I know like I'm writing a lot
about these things. I know. I know. Like
even like the mini essay thing. These
are words that mean specific things to
me, which is just so it's just so crazy.
It's very contextual. I know what it's
talking about because I spend a lot of
time in this tool and I spend a lot of
time writing. So yeah, created and it's
going to create that command,
right? And it's like that's that's nuts
because I'm just going about making
notes and I have this parallel agent
that is looking at my notes and giving
me ideas on how I can improve my
workflow, improve my life. And then and
then not only can it just suggest it, it
just build the thing and it's done. And
we have it right here. I could just hit
it and it's going to run. That's crazy.
>> If if I'm Open AI or anthropic, I'm
buying Obsidian. [laughter]
>> [gasps]
>> Right. Cuz it's the missing link.
>> Yeah, it's nuts.
>> It's the missing link. Why? The fact
that there are people like you've sold
me on this, by the way. I have
>> I've downloaded Obsidian. I think it's a
free tool, right?
>> It is.
>> It's open sourced. I've downloaded it,
but I have not
created my vault because I wanted
>> you, Vin, to take [laughter] me through.
I knew that this was going to be great.
I knew that I would go through this.
This actually exceeded my expectations.
Like this is the the fact like it makes
no sense to me. It
>> makes no sense.
>> The the fact like that if you are if you
are using if you are serious about
using LLMs to take your ideas and put
and and and get the most out of them. If
you're serious about building, you know,
what people are calling a personal OS,
uh, and you are not using a centralized
note-taking tool like this,
>> Yeah.
>> that uses markdown as the foundation,
then you are not using LLMs properly.
>> Yeah. Or at least not at the limit.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. You're not getting
the most out of it.
>> Yeah.
>> You're not getting the most out of it.
So I think what's what's difficult about
this is that it require it does require
a lot of time.
>> Mhm.
>> And to actually set it up properly. It
requires
uh like
Yeah. I mean, it takes a lot of time and
and and the UI isn't is is so daunting
in the sense that it's a blank canvas
and it's not like, hey, you should like
write your preferences over here or, you
know, you kind of just have to you have
to
come up with these ideas yourselves.
>> Yes. But
that's still so amazing, right? Because
I mean, even when we work with other
humans, we have to find a way to explain
things to them. And I just think it's so
cool that now we can work with these
agents and we still have to explain
things to them, but we only need to
explain them once because once we get it
down on into a file, we can always
reference that file. That explanation of
a project or a preference or anything
and it's always there and you can pass
it in.
>> Yeah. A file is like essentially perfect
a perfect memory.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Human beings have memories like
we recall things.
>> Yes. But there's tons of studies that
show that what we remember in fact is
completely different than reality. For
example, when we went and got our that
haircut in Missaga, [laughter]
I could have thought that I had the best
haircut.
You know, that's what my memory
remembers. It was a great haircut, but
who knows? It could have been the worst
haircut I had ever gotten. [laughter]
Now,
Obsidian or whatever tool you end up
using like you know if I had written
>> yes
>> like it it the memory the file the
markdown file is perfect so that when I
link that or I I recall it it is going
to give me a perfect
>> uh you know data point and the other
thing about you know these files is that
you hope well they're not biased
basically they're as biased as the human
being is in terms of writing the
reflections.
>> Yes.
>> At that moment in time.
It's crazy, man. And
>> yeah, it's just crazy. And there's all
there's all of these different aspects
to it. There's the privacy of it and
what that means. There's the power of
it, the fact that now you can just work
with these computers in natural language
and just delegate to them. Um, there's a
fact that there's people like me that
are that are using these tools and
trying to figure out how to delegate
stuff to agents in this way. There's
people that are like me that are even
more hardcore in in different ways and
and pushing them. And I just think it's
such a crazy time to be alive because I
think we are potentially watching a
fundamental shift in the human
relationship to computers. And it's
[snorts] just I just I'm just really
happy to be alive while this is
happening. And I'm curious like how's
this all going to unravel?
>> Well, what's what's cool about this is
99.99%
of people are not going to spend the
time to actually set up something like
this and make it a part of their daily
lives. And the alpha, so to speak, is in
terms of leading a more productive,
happier, healthier, better, more
money-making career is in in in using
something like this with an LLM,
>> I think. So,
>> I'm not saying download Obsidian today,
and I have no affiliation or whatever
with them, but I'm saying like pick a It
sounds like what we should all be doing.
And I'm I'm talking I'm giving myself
this this advice is like
there's no excuse anymore for me not to
be writing down and reflecting
>> Yes.
>> into markdown files.
>> In a world that where LLMs use markdown
files as the oxygen.
>> Yes.
Like people think tokens are the oxygen.
>> But they're not.
>> Yes.
>> The markdown fires are the memories.
Like think about what a human being is.
>> Yes.
>> You know,
>> is a human being the the energy of a
human being or is it the memories of you
know what we recall? you know,
>> I mean, that's like a philosophical
question and maybe it's a a bit, you
know, a bit of both, but it's,
>> you know, I think that there's something
really really fascinating about MD files
as
an underrated about them in order to to
have a true
computer experience in in today's day
and age.
>> Yeah, there's definitely something going
on here. Some fundamental shift. Yeah,
>> it's awesome.
>> Yeah. And like I have bad my word, you
know, I'm learning in real time, right?
Like and I I don't have the right
vocabulary to even explain this.
>> Yes. And neither do I, man. Neither do
I. I'm trying to I'm trying to figure it
out in real time. That's that's why I
think like I know I show something and
and for me I'll do something or or I'll
see something and my friends are like
they kind of laugh because I'll just be
sitting at my computer just tripping
out. And I think it's because I really
like computers and and I cannot believe
that this is possible. I cannot believe
that I can just be making notes on my
computer like I have been since I was a
kid and then all of a sudden this agent
can scan through it and build things
because of it and and like connect
patterns that I could never see. It's
nuts, man. It's nuts. And and at the
root of it, you're right, is just a
collection of interrelated markdown
files.
>> Yeah. Cool, man.
>> I appreciate you. I don't know if you
can see my mind, but my mind is blown
right now.
>> Thank God.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> I wanted to do right by you. I also just
like
>> I say this every time, man, but I'm just
going to keep always saying it to you
all the time. I really, really, really,
really appreciate everything that you
do. I think your pattern recognition and
your pattern matching is like like
really underrated. I think there's a lot
of things that you do that I don't think
it's like difficult to see if you're not
really paying attention. I I just want
to say like thank you for uh for
everything that you do. You're always
putting on like new voices on your show.
I see it. I really appreciate it and
it's just been it's an honor to know you
and yeah, just thanks for the
opportunity. Thanks for everything, man.
>> I appreciate you, Vin. You're a legend.
I'll include links for where to follow
criminally underfollowed internet vin on
on X on his YouTube show uh podcast in
the show notes and description. You can
go and check him out there. Uh people,
please play with some of these tools uh
and let me know what you think. Let Vin
know what you think,
>> please.
>> And uh Vin, I will beg you to come back
on the show [laughter] another time. And
I hope you come back on again.
>> For sure, man. Thank you.